We also have a couple of other core elements which you use a lot
and for this, I'm back on the discover page where we already got a couple of them. In our ion-list
specifically, we have an ion-item and I mentioned that this is the structure you should have. In a
list,
you should basically only have ion-items as direct children, inside of the ion-items,
you can then have any content you want.
Now here I also have that use case where the ion-list is inside of an ion-column which of course is
part of an ion-grid simply because that allows me to control the width of this list here.
This is actually still quite wide on bigger screens as you can tell and
we could shrink this down more but it still does not take 100% of the page width which it would
do otherwise.
Now inside of the ion-item, we then got an ion-thumbnail and I'll come back to images and different
ways of loading images in Ionic later in this module,
for now I want to focus on the ion-label and ion-label is actually a component you'll also use quite
a bit in Ionic. You use it typically inside of ion-items to wrap any text related content, not only just
text,
so if I would type something like this here but also text wrapped into other elements and there it's
just a good practice to use an ion-label and it will also optimize some stylings. The ion-label will
also become very important later once we add an input and once we add form elements and I already want
to show you what I mean on the auth page here, there
if I add an ion-item and that is also worth pointing out, whilst you typically use the ion-item inside of a list
and that is indeed also recommended or where you will mostly see it, you can actually also use an ion-item
outside of a list.
So inside of an ion-list, you should have ion-items as direct children and ion-item could be also placed outside
of a list though,
so this way around it works. Now in inside of the ion-item, a pattern you'll see a lot later is that you
add an ion-label where you can add a position attribute which you can set to floating.
There also are other values and I'll dive into those once we go into the input section, the form input section,
you can of course also dive into the Ionic docs to learn all configurations for the position attribute.
Now what I actually want to show is that if you now add an ion-input or one of the other form control
Ionic components, you actually get a nice label, let's say for the email that will float up as soon as
you click on the input.
So let's wait for the app to reload and let's logout to go to the auth screen and here's our email item,
way too big of course, way too wide but still
and it floats up when I click in there.
Now this style is added also because of ion-item.
If I comment out ion-item here,
so I just have ion-label and ion-input and the rest is the same though, as this page reloads here,
you see this looks different,
we can't really see that there is an input because it has no bottom line and the email is also not
floating up.
So the ion-item also plays an important role, in conjunction with the ion-label and the ion-input
as a wrapper for ion-label and ion-input.
So ion-item used inside of an ion-list but can be used outside of it there too
and then you mostly see it being used with ion-label and ion-input, though by the way, that's also worth
mentioning,
if we would have an ion-list around this, it would also work.
So just because you're holding an input in a label does not mean that the ion-item must not be in a
list,
it absolutely can
and if you're building a longer form, it would be recommended to wrap a list around this,
so you don't really see a difference here though.
But the label is special in the sense of that with that position and inside of an ion-item and an ion-input,
it all of a sudden behaves very specialized and has this extra feature combined with the input
but you can also use it without an input here to just wrap different text and the ion-item on the other
hand can be a nice container inside of an ion-list for any content you want but in conjunction with
form inputs and ion-label, it also has this special behavior of giving you this nice input look with the
underline here and of that floating label if you wanted.
So ion-item and ion-label are very special and very versatile in these scenarios I showed you here
though,
these are really the main use cases for ion-item and how you configure it and how you use it in conjunction
with ion-label and ion-input or in conjunction with ion-list and for the ion-label, it's basically
the same.
It has this special behavior when combined with ion-input or similar form controls and ion-item,
if you don't have that conjunction, so if you have no related input and you're not setting the position
prop, then it just act as a wrapper around text or text elements. And I'm just really emphasizing this
because to me, it initially has been confusing when I use an ion-item, when I use a label and why these
components exist but they're basically all about getting good styling and nice effects in different
contexts.
So to summarize, an ion-item is typically used instead of an ion-list but it can be combined with ion-label
and ion-input or other similar form controls outside of ion-list or inside of ion-list,
that really does not matter,
the important thing here is the combination with label and input to get that nice floating effect or
there also are other effects but to basically have these two components, label and input work together
fine
and other than that, it's a wrapper component that provides certain styling based on the wrapped content
you could say and it also just works nicely together with the ion-list.
It also does have these slots which are especially useful when it is placed inside of a list for having
items at the start or the end or the middle of the ion-item.
Now for the label, it contains texts or multiple text containing elements like h1's, paragraphs and
so on,
it's typically used inside of an ion-item, no matter if you're using it to combine it with an input
or just to output text because if you're using other text, if you have a normal paragraph somewhere on
your page or let's say inside of an ion-column, of an ion-grid, then you don't need to use an ion-label
just to output text, so ion-label really has that kind of loose connection to ion-item.
But in general, you could use it anywhere where you need to wrap text, ion-label will never do any
harm there,
you just might not see any effect because its special effects are related to ion-item. Other than that,
it just gives you some basic styling,
there also is a dedicated ion-text component which gives you more control,
so let's have a look at that now.